Accessibility 

 Williams, G. ‘Access’ Digital Pedagogy in the Humanities


•	 15% of the population, roughly 1 billion, can be categorized as having a disability of ‘some sort’. While this may seem like a lot, when you are speaking in numbers, I still find this particularly low; which disabilities are being classified in this statistic, I wonder.
•	I particularly like the definition that Williams employs here for accessibility: 
“Accessubility exists when a user ( with or without a disability) can easily use a digital resource  with their choice of technology. 
•	Discusses how accessibility functions in the classroom and how the access to digital resources should be considered when designing and operating the classroom.


Williams, G. 2012 ‘Disability, Universal Design, and the Digital Humanities’ Debates in the Digital Humanities

•	The idea of presenting a universal design to implement across the Digital Humanities. 
•	This idea removes barriers by dismanteling barriers that separate disabled from non-disabled users; ultimately, it suggests a universal design does not seek to be inclusive by designing with those with disabilities in mind, but rather, by creating for all.
•	The article suggests that Digital humanist need to be ahead of the game, by not waiting for laws to enforce accessibility codes, and think of all who could utilize the tools and resources before the creation stage, rather than an afterthought.
•	Brings up the idea of the benefits for all—such as financial, not needing to alter it after completion. 
•	Evokes the question, can we accommodate or create aproduce that works for everyone? I tend to argue that we can; it is a rigorous process of doing as much as possible, but resources can be slighting altered when those who struggle to use the tools are ither included in the process or bring attention to what works and what does not.

Accessibility Whack-A-Mole

•	Once again, as the article discusses, it is becoming more imperative that inclusion is part of the discussion with any digital resource that is created.
•	Mimics the ideas of William’s articles—that accessibility is a universal/general problem, not specific to those with disabilities. 
•	The way that we tend to have a inward approach to creation; how it should function may result from how we would use the tool. There is a need to collaboration and research into how others function.  
•	Need to fail and attempt multiple times. 
•	Also brings into the  idea of crowdsourcing to get multiple opinions.


Notes on Accesibility

A11Y: 11 letters between A and Y.
General:

ease of access.
Assistive technology.
accomodate
Sensory--visual, auditory,speech, and motor.
visible/invisible.
cognitive.
Digital:

Raw formats (interoperability).
Open access.
Availability acrros devices/platforms.
Open access.
Usability == Interaction and language.
Contenxt specific issues.
Ableism

-Everyone whois able body is normal, and those who are not sre abnormal.

Is it defined through consensus?
Does disabled mean broken?
How does age play into future disabilities?
Assistive ( tech that helps those perfomr abilities they already have, ex: eyeglasses) vs. Adaptive (technology that sits on top of other technology).
Where does A11Y impact?

Take our own experience for granted -- assumptions about access.
Retrofiting ( make changes after) biased to the design it fits on top of).
Government online ( as a public space) -- programs and services unease.
Online shopping spaces (ex. Amazon).
Citizen engagement:

Assume if we make enough of a fuss there will be changes.
Non-westen places can be excluded from democratic processes.
How do they express discontent?
11% unemployement vs. 6% for non-disabled.
Social Participation:

Inability to participate in shared expereince.
Google translate.
Plain Language:

Academic writing
Construction of identities and credibility.
Due to theoretical?
Assimilation and Accommodation.
Different languages.
History vs pre history?
Power dynamics in terms of language.
Easier to comprehend.
A11Y and Compliance Online

Standards provide suggestions/guidance, but it is up to the developer.
A11Y challenges for mobile devices and those visabilities.
Need to be Perceivable, Operable, Undersandable, or Robust.
Addressing issue of A11Y:

Social construction -- as others.
Content vs container.
Diff-abled-- do things in different ways.
Including appropriateness.
George Williams--who has the disability here?
Design = purpose +planning + intention
Design biased to able.
Conclusion:

Impact on digital= indirect
human experience that cannot be compartmentalized.
