
Example of Bjork: Biophilia and the way that nature and music coincide. 
Example of the app that has viruses attacking a cell and you must decide between fighting them off and listening to the sound. 

“s root; we parse The Word; we name The Word; we disambiguate The Word; we collocate The Word; we count The Word again; we apply an algorithm that allows us to reconstruct the world of The Word as one we can visualize as a list, as a line graph, as a histogram in small multip “ - Beginning this discussion on sound and having attended the OttawaU event on music, I think this unit is extremely important in moving away (to some degree) from DH being rooted solely in the written word; as this may be hard for some of us, especially the English majors, it will be interesting to explore further the important of DH in music as well.

“This project is unique because, unlike most sound mapping initiatives, it provides dispatches throughout the city that offer free training and recording equipment to interested individuals. Regardless of their economic or educational status, it is possible for all community members to participate in the project” - Given the poverty divide in New Orleans, this is a great initiative!

“The Roaring ‘Twenties” - I looked this us, its a really cool project!

“Examples include assignments such as audio essays and voiceovers for digital videos, both of which involve composing and recording written scripts” - I find this extremely relevant. During the talk on Digital Humanities lead by Professor Greenspan, it became clear this is a hot topic in Digital Humanities right now.In essence, we discussed the pushback from scholars in accepting these forms of 'sound writing' as someone's thesis, instead of the standard paper.

“By watching video tutorials or simply tinkering with software, scores of people have taught themselves to independently produce high quality podcasts, songs, soundscapes, and other projects” - The notion of these softwares also bring into the question of accessibility again. On the one hand, it is great to open up these resources to those outside of the professional domain, it does also bring up the idea of who can afford these softwares--for instance, Reaper is only free for 60 days and Garage band has 5$ in-app purchases.

“Let me hear something of the past instead”. - wonderful--It is interesting how before this unit, I had not even thought much about how we rely so heavily on sight, but ignore the importance of sound in understanding and experiencing the past.
